.TH SLASHEM 6 "01 January 1998"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
slashem \- Exploring The Mazes of Menace
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B slashem
[
.B \-d
.I directory
]
[
.B \-n
]
[
.B \-[ABCEHKPRSTVW@]
]
[
.B \-[DX]
]
[
.B \-u
.I playername
]
[
.B \-dec
]
[
.B \-ibm
]
.br
.B slashem
[
.B \-d
.I directory
]
.B \-s
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-[ABCEHKPRSTVW]
]
[
.I playernames
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I SLASH'EM
is a display oriented Dungeons & Dragons(tm) - like game.
The standard tty display and command structure resemble rogue.
It is an extension of SLASH which is an extension of NetHack.
.PP
Other, more graphical display options exist if you are using either a PC,
or an X11 interface.
.PP
To get started you really only need to know two commands.  The command
.B ?
will give you a list of the available commands (as well as other information)
and the command
.B /
will identify the things you see on the screen.
.PP
To win the game (as opposed to merely playing to beat other people's high
scores) you must locate the Amulet of Yendor which is somewhere below
the 20th level of the dungeon and get it out.
Nobody has achieved this yet; anybody who does will probably go down
in history as a hero among heros.
.PP
When the game ends, whether by your dying, quitting, or escaping
from the caves,
.I SLASH'EM
will give you (a fragment of) the list of top scorers.
The scoring is based on many aspects of your behavior, but a rough estimate
is obtained by taking the amount of gold you've found in the cave plus four
times your (real) experience.
Precious stones may be worth a lot of gold when brought to the exit.
There is a 10% penalty for getting yourself killed.
.PP
The environment variable SLASHEMOPTIONS can be used to initialize many
run-time options.
The ? command provides a description of these options and syntax.
(The
.B \-dec
and
.B \-ibm
command line options are equivalent to the
.B decgraphics
and
.B ibmgraphics
run-time options described there,
and are provided purely for convenience on systems
supporting multiple types of terminals.)
.PP
The
.B \-u
.I playername
option supplies the answer to the question "Who are you?".
It overrides any name from SLASHEMOPTIONS, NETHACKOPTIONS, HACKOPTIONS, USER,
LOGNAME, or getlogin(), which will otherwise be tried in order.
If none of these provides a useful name, the player will be asked for one.
Player names (in conjunction with uids) are used to identify save files,
so you can have several saved games under different names.
Conversely, you must use the appropriate player name to restore a saved game.
.PP
A
.I playername
suffix or a separate option consisting of one of
.B "\-A \-B \-C \-D \-E \-F \-G \-H \-I \-K \-L \-M \-N \-P \-R \-S \-T \-U \-V \-W"
can be used to determine the character role.
Likewise,
.B "\-@"
can be used to explicitly request that a random role be chosen.
It may need to be quoted with a backslash (-\\@) if @
is the "kill" character (see "stty") for the terminal, in order
to prevent the current input line from being cleared.
.PP
The
.B \-s
option alone will print out the list of your scores on the current version.
An immediately following
.B \-v
reports on all versions present in the score file.
The
.B \-s
may also be followed by arguments
.B "\-A \-B \-C \-D \-E \-F \-G \-H \-I \-K \-L \-M \-N \-P \-R \-S \-T \-U \-V \-W"
to print the
scores of Archeologists, Barbarians, Cave(wo)men, Doppelgangers, Elves,
Flame Mages, Gnomes, Healers, Ice Mages, Knights, Lycanthropes, Monks,
Necromancers, Priest(esse)s, Rogues, Samurai, Tourists, Undead Slayers,
Valkyries, or Wizards.
It may also be followed by one or more player names to print the scores of the
players mentioned, by 'all' to print out all scores, or by a number to print
that many top scores.
.PP
The
.B \-n
option suppresses printing of any news from the game administrator.
.PP
The
.B \-Z
or
.B \-X
option will start the game in a special non-scoring discovery mode.
.B \-Z
will, if the player is the game administrator, start in debugging (wizard)
mode instead.
.PP
The
.B \-d
option, which must be the first argument if it appears,
supplies a directory which is to serve as the playground.
It overrides the value from NETHACKDIR, HACKDIR,
or the directory specified by the game administrator during compilation
(usually /usr/local/slashemdir).
This option is usually only useful to the game administrator.
The playground must contain several auxiliary files such as help files,
the list of top scorers, and a subdirectory
.I save
where games are saved.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Jay Fenlason (+ Kenny Woodland, Mike Thome and Jon Payne) wrote the
original hack, very much like rogue (but full of bugs).
.PP
Andries Brouwer continuously deformed their sources into an entirely
different game.
.PP
Mike Stephenson has continued the perversion of sources, adding various
warped character classes and sadistic traps with the help of many strange
people who reside in that place between the worlds, the Usenet Zone.
A number of these miscreants are immortalized in the historical
roll of dishonor and various other places.
.PP
The resulting mess is now called NetHack, to denote its
development by the Usenet.  Andries Brouwer has made this request for the
distinction, as he may eventually release a new version of his own.
.PP
Tom Proudfoot took NetHack and rendered it into SLASH -
SuperLotsaAddedStuffHack,  adding more character classes, levels 
monsters and all manner of changes.
.PP
Warren Cheung took SLASH and rendered it into SLASHEM
- SuperLotsaAddedStuffHack - Extended Magic,  with more
improvements to the bloated behemoth.
.SH FILES
.PP
All files are in the playground, normally /usr/local/slashemdir.
If DLB was defined during the compile, the data files and special levels
will be inside a larger file, normally nhdat, instead of being separate
files.
.br
.DT
.ta \w'cmdhelp, opthelp, wizhelp\ \ \ 'u
slashem	The program itself.
.br
data, oracles, rumors	Data files used by SLASH'EM.
.br
options, quest.dat	More data files.
.br
help, hh	Help data files.
.br
cmdhelp, opthelp, wizhelp	More help data files.
.br
*.lev	Predefined special levels.
.br
dungeon	Control file for special
.br
	levels.
.br
history	A short history of SLASH'EM.
.br
license	Rules governing
.br
	redistribution.
.br
record	The list of top scorers.
.br
logfile	An extended list of games
.br
	played.
.br
xlock.nnn	Description of a dungeon
.br
	level.
.br
perm	Lock file for xlock.dd.
.br
bonesDD.nn	Descriptions of the ghost and
.br
	belongings of a deceased
.br
	adventurer.
.br
save	A subdirectory containing the
.br
	saved games.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.DT
.ta \w'HACKPAGER or PAGER\ \ \ 'u
USER or LOGNAME	Your login name.
.br
HOME		Your home directory.
.br
SHELL		Your shell.
.br
TERM		The type of your terminal.
.br
HACKPAGER or PAGER	Replacement for default pager.
.br
MAIL	Mailbox file.
.br
MAILREADER	Replacement for default reader
.br
	(probably /bin/mail or 
.br
	/usr/ucb/mail).
.br
NETHACKDIR	Playground.
.br
SLASHEMOPTIONS	String predefining several SLASH'EM
.br
	options.
.br

In addition, SHOPTYPE is used in debugging (wizard) mode.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
dgn_comp(6), lev_comp(6), recover(6)
.SH BUGS
.PP
Probably infinite.


.PP
Dungeons & Dragons is a Trademark of TSR Inc.
